Whether it's an employee
sending an email or
a malicious actor attempting
to exfiltrate confidential data,
actions that are performed
on a network can be
identified through examining
network traffic flows.
Understanding these network
communications provides
valuable insight
into the activities
happening in a network.
This way, you can better
understand what's going on in
an environment and defend
against potential threats.
With this in mind,
let's examine how to
record network traffic
through packet captures.
Previously in the program,
you learned that
when data is sent,
it's divided into packets.
Just like an addressed
envelope in the mail,
packets contain delivery
information which
is used to route it
to its destination.
This information
includes a sender
and receiver's IP address,
the type of packet that's
being sent, and more.
Packets can provide lots
of information about
the communications
happening between
devices over a network.
You may also recall that
a packet has
multiple components.
There's the header, which
includes information like
the type of network protocol
and port being used.
Imagine this as
being the name and
mailing address located
on an envelope.
Network protocols are a set
of rules that determine
the transmission of data
between devices on a network.
Ports are non-physical
locations on a computer
that organize data transmission
between devices on a network.
The header also contains
the packet's source and
destination IP address.
We'll explore more information
contained in the header
in a later section.
Next, there's the payload, which
contains the actual data
that's being delivered.
This is like the content of
a letter inside of an envelope.
And there's the footer,
which signifies the
end of the packet.
So how exactly can you
observe a network packet?
Just like scents are invisible
but can be smelled,
packets are invisible but can be
captured using tools
called packet sniffers.
You may remember packet sniffers
from a previous section.
A network protocol analyzer,
or packet sniffer,
is a tool designed
to capture and
analyze data traffic
within a network.
As a security analyst,
you'll use packet
sniffers to inspect
packets for indicators
of compromise.
Through packet sniffing, we can grab
a detailed snapshot of
packets that travel over
a network in the form
of a packet capture.
A packet capture,
or P-cap, is a file
containing data
packets intercepted
from an interface or network.
It's sort of like intercepting
an envelope in the mail.
Packet captures are
incredibly useful
during incident investigation.
By having access to
the communications
happening between
devices over a network,
you can observe network
interactions and start to build
a storyline to determine
what exactly happened.
Coming up, we'll
discuss the importance
of packet analysis.
Meet you there.